README.md, before:

# Spotify Telegram Downloader Bot

A Telegram bot that listens for Spotify track links and downloads them using [SpotDL](https://spotdl.github.io/). Downloads are sent to a local folder and organized by artist/title.

## Features

- Detects Spotify track links in Telegram chats.
- Downloads tracks via `spotdl` (with YouTube fallback).
- Buffered progress messages sent to Telegram (avoids spamming the chat).
- Uses environment variables for credentials; secure and configurable.
- Works in Docker and Docker Compose for easy deployment.

## Requirements

- Docker & Docker Compose
- Telegram bot token
- Spotify Developer account credentials (Client ID & Secret)

## Environment Variables

Set in `docker-compose.yml`:

```
TELEGRAM_TOKEN="your_telegram_bot_token"
SPOTIFY_CLIENT_ID="your_spotify_client_id"
SPOTIFY_CLIENT_SECRET="your_spotify_client_secret"
```

## Setup

1. Clone the repository:

```
git clone <repo_url>
cd <repo_folder>
```

2. Build the Docker image:

```
docker-compose build
```

3. Start the bot:

```
docker-compose up -d
```


4. Music downloads will appear in `./music`.

## Bot Usage

- Add the bot to your Telegram chat.
- Send a Spotify track link, for example:


```
https://open.spotify.com/track/xxxxxxxxxxxx
```

- The bot will buffer download progress and notify when complete.


## Notes

- The bot auto-generates a SpotDL config from the Spotify ENV variables.
- You can adjust buffering interval by changing `BUFFER_TIME` in `bot.py`.

Commit message:

added main and allowed users

README.md, after:

# Spotify Telegram Downloader Bot

A Telegram bot that listens for Spotify track links and downloads them using [SpotDL](https://spotdl.github.io/). Downloads are sent to a local folder and organized by artist/title.

## Features

- Detects Spotify track links in Telegram chats.
- Downloads tracks via `spotdl` (with YouTube fallback).
- Buffered progress messages sent to Telegram (avoids spamming the chat).
- Uses environment variables for credentials; secure and configurable.
- Works in Docker and Docker Compose for easy deployment.

## Requirements

- Docker & Docker Compose
- Telegram bot token
- Spotify Developer account credentials (Client ID & Secret)

## Environment Variables

Set in `docker-compose.yml`:

```
TELEGRAM_TOKEN="your_telegram_bot_token"
SPOTIFY_CLIENT_ID="your_spotify_client_id"
SPOTIFY_CLIENT_SECRET="your_spotify_client_secret"
ALLOWED_TELEGRAM_USERS=123456789,987654321
BUFFER_TIME=5
```

TELEGRAM_TOKEN
The bot’s identity card. Telegram uses this to know which bot you’re pretending to be.
If it’s missing or wrong, nothing starts. No bot, no messages, just silence.

SPOTIFY_CLIENT_ID
Your app ID from Spotify Developer Dashboard.
SpotDL uses this to talk to Spotify’s API and fetch track metadata. Without it, downloads degrade or fail.

SPOTIFY_CLIENT_SECRET
The matching secret for the client ID.
Think of it as the password Spotify expects along with the ID. Keep it private unless you enjoy revoking keys.

ALLOWED_TELEGRAM_USERS
A comma-separated list of Telegram numeric user IDs.
If set, only these users can trigger downloads. Everyone else gets ignored.
If unset or empty, the bot becomes democratic. Regret usually follows.

BUFFER_TIME
Number of seconds the bot waits before sending buffered SpotDL output back to Telegram.
Higher value = fewer messages, calmer chats.
Lower value = more updates, more noise, same download speed.

## Setup

1. Clone the repository:

```
git clone <repo_url>
cd <repo_folder>
```

2. Build the Docker image:

```
docker-compose build
```

3. Start the bot:

```
docker-compose up -d
```


4. Music downloads will appear in `./music`.

## Bot Usage

- Add the bot to your Telegram chat.
- Send a Spotify track link, for example:


```
https://open.spotify.com/track/xxxxxxxxxxxx
```

- The bot will buffer download progress and notify when complete.


## Notes

- The bot auto-generates a SpotDL config from the Spotify ENV variables.
- You can adjust buffering interval by changing `BUFFER_TIME` in `bot.py`.
